Welcome to the section on object oriented programming here's what we'll be doing in this section.
We're going to define what object oriented programming or O.P. is and revisit the new keyword and understand
it in quite a bit a depth we'll then use constructor functions to reduce code duplications and refactor
our constructor functions using call and apply.
If you haven't watched the series on closures and the keyword this I highly recommend you do that first.
Everything in these videos will build off of our knowledge of the keyword this as well as call apply
and bind.
Here we go.
So what is object oriented programming.
Simply put it's a programming model based around the idea of objects and blueprints which create objects
we call these blueprints classes and the objects that we create from our classes are traditionally called
instances with object oriented programming.
We strive to make our classes abstract and modular so that we can reuse classes easily and share them
amongst all parts of an application.
It's important to note that javascript does not have built in support for classes unlike languages like
Python Ruby and Java.
But we can mimic the behavior of classes using with Javascript has functions and objects before we see
how to use functions to mimic the behavior of what a class is.
Let's see why this programming technique is quite useful.
Imagine for a second that you're an architect and you're tasked with building a few houses.
Each house is going to have a certain number of bedrooms bathrooms and a number of square feet.
The first thing that might come to mind is let's make an object for each house.
We need to make that seems pretty reasonable but once we start having to create more than a few objects
things get very repetitive and tedious.
Let's refactor this code by writing a blueprint for what a house should look like.
Let's make a function when used that will construct a house object.
In javascript we call these constructor functions.
Now let's see what our constructor function for a house looks like.
Right off the bat we see that the function is capitalized.
This does not change anything about the function.
It's just best practice and convention so that other developers know that it's a constructor function.
The next thing we see is the keyword this is back.
Just when you thought we were done with that.
If you haven't watched the series on closures and a keyword this makes sure you do so.
Otherwise the rest of this series will be quite confusing.
In our constructor function we are attaching properties onto the keyword.
This we're somehow hoping that when we call the function a new object will be returned to us with the
values specified in the function.
However something is missing here.
If we look at the first house variable we are setting it equal to the result of the house function being
called.
The problem is our house function is not returning anything.
Therefore the function will return undefined.
So how do we fix this issue.
The answer lies in another special keyword that will explore in the next video.
The new keyword.
See other.